# Implementation-of-classification-and-regression-model
Classification model

Beaches alongside Chicago's Lake Michigan are equipped with weather sensors implemented by The Chicago Park District. Hourly Measurements are captured by these sensors and broader insights can be taken out by evaluating this data and implementing various machine learning algorithm. Text classification one of the widely used natural language processing. We have readings in dataset from the sensors. Our main focus is on total rain and all the dependent variables on our target variable. At first I identifies the target variable by understanding the dataset and identified what best outcome can be used for prediction and analysis purpose. There was a column named Total Rain which was my target variable. At the initial stage I cleaned the data by replacing all null values by mean and median of their respective columns. I also eliminated the columns which were not of concerning after selecting the target variable. But there was a problem because the data of target variable was continuous .Also I needed classify the column as in sub categories as very low(VL),low(L),moderate(M),very high(VH) for analysis. To deal with this continuous data I classified the data of the column into four sub categories by putting them in bins and shifted these sub categories to a new column name rain level by implementing bucket .Then I dropped the Total rain column to avoid data redundancy. Next step was label encoder in which we assign labels. Then we deal with de pendent and independent variable by inserting them in X and Y label .Then I did scaling to standardize the data. Then comes the part of testing and training where 30% is test data.
Then comes the part of implementing various models. At first I have implemented decision tree classifier and obtained the confusion matrix and accuracy. Then the prediction is done on the basis of decision tree classifier model. The accuracy was 100 percent which is not possible while doing prediction. This was the indication that the training data was over fit for this model and tis model is unsuitable of the dataset. Then I went forward with applying another model to the dataset. I applied support vector machine (SVM) and predicted the model. After words I printed the confusion matrix and accuracy. The accuracy gained by SVM was optimal as compared to decision tree classifier .And we move forward with SVM model. In conclusion we can say SVM has given a better prediction that which type of rainfall weather its very low or low or moderate or very high. And using this prediction in future we can classify locations on the basis of rain falls and predict the rain fall for upcoming years. I have encountered lots of challenges while performing the coding part. First off all finding the dataset was a task because the model implementation and source of dataset was limited. Also making a decision best model selection was also a crucial part in all the process.


Regression model

Regression is the process of finding the relationship between target variable and a combination of other independent variables, where the required data type of dependent variable is continuous in nature. It is also useful in various fields like computer science, economy, and social science and so on. The implementation of regression rises day to day where we need to deal with large amount of data. The dataset used for applying regression analysis contains estimating records of daily streamflow at ungagged locations in the southeast United States. This dataset contains 9 attributes and 293 instances. In U.S. Multiple variables hold the values of gauges which are considered as independent variables where. The 90th percentile of annual maximum streamflow is provided as an example target variable for 293 stream gages. Here we had an information in the form of dataset regarding water resources for accurate measurement of streamflow .Most crucial part is installing all the required libraries for the whole process. Then comes the identification of target variable, and here it’s the column named “MAR_PPT7100_CM”. To perform regression model we need continuous dependent variable so in our process this requirement is fulfilled where the response variable is “MAR_PPT7100_CM”, which is continuous in nature. Then we imported data and started to clean it for the betterment of prediction. Initially, the missing values in the data are checked and accordingly, there were no presence of null values. Furthermore, scaling of independent variables is been carried out using a Standard Scaler. The total
data is then divided into a training and testing subsets in the ratio of 70% and 30% respectively. Here, the pre-processing and data transformation is successfully completed. After extracting the data in the required form, a Decision Tree Regressor is built at initial stage. The DecisionTreeRegressor() function is imported using the sklearn library. Accordingly, the model is fitted on the training data and tested using testing. Subsequently, the model produced an optimal accuracy of around 89%. Furthermore, a Support Vector Machine regressor is implemented which yielded an accuracy of around 58%, which is comparatively very low as of decision tree. These model were implemented without any hyper parameter tuning which yielded their highest accuracy. As the above mentioned method were non-parametric, which makes no assumptions on the given data. Thus, on the other hand a parametric algorithm namely, a Linear regression is also designed. In our case the linear model was built without any assumption satisfaction and surprisingly, the model produced an excellent accuracy of 85% which was higher than SVM. Here we are dealing with multiple linear regression. We can conclude with how the models are helpful in getting a good overview of streamflow which will help in predicting the quality and capability of water resources in the specific location.
